You're sitting there and you're sitting
with David Fraver and with David Grush
and you and David Fraver have these
amazing eyewitness [music] accounts.
As we convene here, UAP are in our
airspace. These sightings are not rare
or isolated. They are routine.
There's a long history of fighter pilots
like yourself having seen these things.
What happened [music] when you were
there? Our assumption at first was that
these were just radar errors. But they
weren't behaving [music] like false
tracks. They were steady. They were
solid. They were consistent. And some of
these objects were even going over the
speed of sound. As soon as they crossed
that threshold, boom, object shoots
down, came within about 50 feet of the
cockpit. And [music] he described it as
a dark gray or black cube inside of a
clear sphere. About half the room raised
their hand like, "Oh yeah, the cubes and
spheres, you know, we saw those." Yeah.
About 5 to 15 ft in diameter. Oh, by the
way, they're out there all day. Do you
believe that? Do you think that the US
government is reverse engineering UFOs?
Flow state is a popular word in, you
know, pop psychology, that sort of
thing. I I have to think, you know, it's
described as like, you know, you're
purely present and you're just focused
on the
you you have to think that that
experience flying a fighter jet like
that has to be peak flow state, right?
100%. And you know, honestly, it really
even starts before we get in, you know,
well, we have a brief that we have to
prepare and you know, you're joshing
around. Once that brief starts, it's
very serious. Uh, you finish a brief,
maybe have time for a coffee, and then
you're you're walking to the jet, you're
walking to maintenance, signing it out,
signing out the maintenance forms,
reviewing the aircraft, strapping in all
the gear, you know, 60 lbs of gear or
so, and hopping in the jet. You know, we
do what we call building our nest, you
know, like we're
unloading contents from our kneeboard,
we're strapping in, we're placing things
on our legs that we need for
information.
Um, but then once you get airborne, it's
it is it's just like it's like being
constantly in the moment, but you are
planning ahead. You're always thinking
about your fuel state, where you're
going, what you need to do, what the
contingencies are. And I would say the
greatest example of that, the
penultimate presence moment, if you
will, is landing on the aircraft
carrier, especially at night. It's a
very trippy experience. It can be almost
meditative when you're out at range and
you're just flying towards this singular
little light that's in a sea of
blackness and literally a sea as well.
[laughter]
Uh, and you know, you kind of have this
very like slow and gradual perspective
change and all of a sudden you start to
notice it's getting faster and faster.
This perspective change, the light
getting brighter and bigger and all a
sudden you almost have to kind of snap
out of this state and remind yourself
that you're about to go through this
very intense evolution.
It almost feels like um does the jet
become like an appendage of your body at
100%. Yeah, 100%. U you're strapped in
there. I mean there's it's not the jet
and and you it's just you know you think
and the aircraft moves, you know, I mean
become so uh synchronized and and part
of part of kind of your subconscious,
you know, cuz you train so much on it.
You're constantly making corrections. uh
you're constantly doing things and just
all those mechanisms are just so well
rehearsed that it just feels like you're
you're just part of the jet and you're
just moving it around.
You did an amazing podcast actually with
Dr. Ia Whitley who deals with the
psychology of uh both fighter pilots and
astronauts.
What did you learn from her? I mean I
imagine she was sort of putting words
and analysis and names to things that
you've experienced firsthand, but what
was that conversation like? Well, you
know, we get a lot of what we call
ground training where they bring in
folks not like herself and teach it to
us at a certain level and we go through
different reviews, you know, like every
six months or a year where we rediscuss
these different issues. Um, but I think
what was like most impactful to me like
as as the operator, as a guy on the
leading edge, we don't always, you know,
get to see behind the curtain to like
the countless people that like it takes
to get us there and make this mission
successful. So to really talk and engage
with someone who's devoted her career to
this, her life to this, it was just
really rewarding to kind of have that
perspective from someone that is
ultimately always on the outside of the
actual operation, but is so critical to
what we do.
Yeah. And I imagine you learn so much
kind of in the abstract before you get
into the cockpit and then everything
probably goes away at some point. Like
there's a great book called The Art of
Learning by a guy named Josh Weightskin.
He was actually the inspiration for uh
searching for Bobby Fischer. So he's
this prodigious amazing chess player as
a kid and then he became I think a a
champion in like Tai Chi push hands or
whatever martial arts. So he's one of
the few people who've like been at the
top of two different disciplines and he
writes this book about how to best learn
and it's [clears throat] called it's a
great book. It's called The Art of
Learning. And he says that you have to
you can learn a bunch of mental models,
but ultimately when you're like doing
the thing, all the mental models just go
away.
Yeah.
And you have to kind of integrate. It's
like a dog catching a Frisbee is not
doing vector calculus when he's catching
the He might be using it, but you
[laughter] know.
Yeah. I mean, those models too are based
on assumptions, right? And you're
building that model so that you can have
some type of,
you know, pre-nowledge of what you're
getting yourself into so you can
hopefully meet the expectations. But and
you know I was on flight instructor for
three and a half years and it was called
a advanced strike fighter instructor.
And so I was working with students who
were flying their first tactical jet uh
for the first time. Uh, [snorts] and I
told them all the time, you know,
there's guys that and and girls that are
incredibly incredibly studious, you
know, memorizing the book, know the
procedures inside and out, know exactly
what to do, and they get up in the air
and it all falls apart, you know,
because they're trying to almost kind of
reach back to what they learned on the
ground instead of just kind of being in
the moment and like physically learning
it, you know, which is a totally
different mechanism than just memorizing
something. And you know, you have to go
in with with the right knowledge into
those briefs into those missions. But
the people that succeeded the best, you
know, weren't trying to necessarily
prove themselves in the jet. They were
there to like actually take it in as a
learning experience. M you know James
McDonald of Macdonald Douglas, you know,
famous American Aerospace Corporation,
he uh got really interested in this idea
because a lot of his early planes, he
would have fighter pilots fly them and
they would kind of freeze up at times
and he had a word for this. He would
call them gremlins. And so he spent a
lot of his research career looking for
ghosts in the machine. And when I
imagine when you're working with F-18s,
you know, these incredibly comp complex
instruments, you know, maybe your mind
leaps to the conclusion that like
there's something at play here that's
almost like magical or mystical or
something. Did you experience anything
like that when you were when you were
flying or Gosh, yeah, that's an
interesting question. I'd say,
you know, I'd say the instances where
that was, you know, maybe part of my my
assessment of the situation, if you
will, was during the abnormal times
during emergencies where there was
uncertainty about how things were going
to go go down, right? You know, one
example is I was about 80 miles west of
the boat, 30,000 feet or so,
um, nighttime,
and all of a sudden
my canopy starts leaking. Uh, and I
don't know if it's cracked. I don't know
if a seal blew. Um, but you know what?
We essentially just the jet and pulled
down as fast as we could so that we
didn't have a hypoxic situation if it
did burst. Uh, and you know, those are
the times when you kind of start maybe
fitting the pieces together a bit as far
as, you know, am I going to get through
this? Am I going to get back to the boat
in time? Is this going to get worse? Um,
I've had multiple issues like that. And,
you know, in fact, maybe even a better
story is a time we were going to drop a
training round in uh, Saudi Arabia.
Wow.
And I was flying on the way out and I
just it was very hard to describe. the
stick just didn't feel right. And I had
been on this boat. I just got to the
squadron, my first fleet squadron,
operational squadron. And you know, as a
new guy, it's like last thing you want
to do is be like, "My stick feels
funny." You know, like this is not
that's not a diagnosis. It's just maybe
it's in my head. Right.
Right.
And you know, we're getting out there
and it's I'm noticing it more and more.
And then we get to the point we're going
to drop the bomb. We roll in, you know,
40 degrees, nose down, and I'm in the
dive for about two out of the six
seconds. I pull up and I abort. And uh
my commanding officer who was leading
the flight was like, "You know what
happened?" I'm like, "Sir, I don't know
what to tell you, but my my stick is
just not performing the way I would
expect.
Uh like it feels tough to move in
certain directions, and I have no
warnings, no cautions, no advisories."
Um and so there's not a whole lot we can
do other than just kind of hang on. Uh,
and we're progressing back to the boat.
It's probably about 100 miles or so, and
it's getting worse, and it's getting
worse, and it's getting to the point as
I'm like 10 miles from the ship where if
I want to move the jet to the right, I
have to take both hands
and force the stick to the right.
And if I tap it lightly to the left, the
aircraft would essentially overbank 120
degrees immediately. Um, still no
warnings, no cautions and you know
there's a lot of lessons learned from
that from that situation, but came back
boarded uneventfully on the carrier. Um,
and it turns out there's one of our
bleed lines we call it. They take air in
the intake and they siphon some of it
off to power generators and do other
things. One of those had broken
and it was essentially like a plasma
beam just cutting things inside the jet.
Oh my god.
And it was cutting through the control
feedback lines uh that attached to the
stick. They ended up having to like
crane the jet off of it. But, you know,
that was certainly a moment where it
was, you know, and it wasn't a doubt of
the aircraft at first. You doubt
yourself first before you kind of jump
to to the aircraft and you don't have
any indications. But that was certainly
a time where,
you know, you're really questioning
what's going on. You know, where does
this go? And, you know, is there a ghost
in this machine that I'm I'm battling?
Yeah. And what did you experience per a
lot of the listeners of this show that
care about the UFO and UAP phenomena
which you've played a massive role in
both public advocacy wise um but also
just in relaying this experience. What
happened when you were there?
Yeah. So when we came back from that
deployment we began we entered what we
call a maintenance phase where we just
were not flying as much. We're upgrading
some systems. We're even sending some
jets to four deployed squadrons. And um
one of the we were slated for a major
upgrade of our radar system which is our
primary detection tool and uh what we
use for a lot of the weapon systems.
Um and we were going from something
called the APG73.
Uh it's considered a mechanically
scanned array radar. So basically a big
dish in front that's moving around
sending down range receiving them back
and giving us a picture of what's out
there.
uh and we were upgrading to like a very
new technology, very capable technology
called uh actively electronically
scanned array radar.
Uh the APG79
and so this system uh it's fixed and
it's much much more precise, send a lot
more energy in in smaller packets with
wherever it wants. And
and it took about 8 months for this
process to occur, you know, maybe like a
month per jet. And so you might be
flying one mission in the morning with
the older radar and you might be flying
later in the evening with the newer
radar system. And immediately we noticed
that when we were flying, we're flying
in this big cube off the coast of
Virginia Beach. Um that there were
objects in a working area that we were
detecting with the newer radars. Um and
older radars could have errors. um not
software errors per se, but they might
pick up reflections of radar energy from
say a moving car or uh a thick cloud or
something of that nature. So, you know,
these kind of false tracks, as we would
call them, weren't were something we
were used to. This system wasn't
supposed to have those errors. It was
supposed to essentially filter them out.
But our our assumption at first was that
these were just simply radar errors. Uh
not non-existent objects, just kind of a
a bug, a bug, a ghost in a machine, if
you will. Um, but they weren't behaving
like false tracks, right? They were
steady. They were solid. They were
consistent. And they were behaving in
ways that didn't really make sense for a
false track. They were sometimes
completely stationary, 0.0 Mach over a
piece of the ground, very high winds,
category 3 hurricane type winds. And
even in an F-18, you're working in winds
like that. you have to like maybe plan
your turn,
you know, like 3 miles earlier cuz
you're going to get blown 3, five miles
as you're making that turn.
Um, and these things would just be
perfectly stationary. Uh, not even like
vibrating, right? Not like kind of like
being moved around and propulsed back
into a position, but perfectly
stationary.
Uh, we'd see them at 6 or 08 Mach around
250 to 350 knots. Um, and that's those
are speeds that we typically operate at.
Um, and they would be doing that in a in
a holding pattern, in a circular
pattern, in a racetrack pattern. And
this is not consistent with what we
would expect to see from radar errors,
but it's what we were seeing. Um, we'd
see them meandering sometimes. So, um,
non-consistent heading and
non-consistent altitudes, kind of just
moving in a general direction, but doing
it very sloppy way, which is not again
not how we operate. You're just wasting
fuel. There's no real reason to do that.
And this is you and roughly how many
other people in your squadron are kind
of noticing this?
Yeah. Well, at this time we didn't
really know, you know. Um, we we weren't
really discussing it. Um, and I think a
lot of guys that were seeing it just,
you know, either maybe I didn't hear
them talk about it or they just weren't
talking about it.
Um, but even some of these objects were
even going over the speed of sound. Y
1.1 1.2.
So, you're kind of at this point
personally noticing this and like kind
of keeping it to yourself.
Pretty much. Yeah. We're talking a
little bit cuz there's a guy in my back
seat. So there's a little bit of
chatter, but it's not something we're
like debriefing. It's not something
we're we're going to the commanding
officer with. But, you know, when we're
out there, you know, with this radar
system, whatnot, and we see targets or
or tracks,
we're not just like looking at them.
We're we're we basically fly with a
trackpad on our throttle and we're
moving it around like a computer mouse,
and we're selecting these targets. We're
categorizing them and organizing them
and switching between them. And it just
so happened that um some folks started
flying with the AT Fleer. It's a
infrared and electrooptical uh targeting
system. And as they happen to be within
a relatively close range of these these
radar errors, yeah,
they notice that the fleer, which is
looking where the radar is looking,
[snorts] is seeing something at these
locations there. There's higher energy
coming back from it. And typically, it
almost just looked like someone was
shining a flashlight into the sensor.
there wasn't, you know, the skid of an
aircraft and we're seeing propulsion
come out the back. Um, and at that same
range, our our A9X missile systems that
we're carrying are also detecting and
locking onto these objects. And so now
we're having correlation across three
different sensors
telling us that there's a physical
object here. And that was kind of the
moment we, you know, at least those that
were aware, we're like, okay, this is
like these are probably physical
objects. Like we can't assume that
they're just errors in the radar.
That's, you know, it would be
irresponsible. could lead to a safety
risk cuz we were essentially just flying
through these, ignoring them. Um, and so
that that really kind of started, at
least for me and a few others, the
process of trying to fly up and visually
seeing one of these objects. Uh, and so
we get on our radar, we get on our
fleer, detect one that's slow, and um,
you know, we step down about 800 ft
outside of our 500t safety bubble
getting look up so we can see it against
the blue sky. Um, all our sensor data
would get pumped into our helmet like an
augmented reality system. So, it's
telling us exactly where to look and
we'd come by this very manageable merge.
I'll say we're not doing at 1200 knots
like we use usually do. Um, and we
couldn't see anything. Um, nothing
there. We would turn back around and our
sensors would reacquire it. Um, there it
is again. And yet it seemed to be
displaced a bit, but it was generally in
the same location. And that, you know,
just led to more confusion cuz we had to
trust our sensors. Um, and
we didn't know really what else to do at
that point. And that was kind of the
status quo for a few weeks. Uh, but
eventually
a few of my buddies in the squadron,
they were flying out, two aircraft
taking off together.
um they're probably about 150 ft apart
as they approach this kind of entry
point at a fixed GPS location altitude
where they enter that uh working area.
As soon as they cross that threshold,
boom, object shoots down the left or the
right wing of the lead aircraft. Uh came
within about 50 ft of the cockpit, which
is extremely close. Uh and anything
splitting a section is a problem. Um
they canled the flight, turned back
around, and I I met I saw him in the
ready room. He still had all his gear
on, had his, you know, mouth gaped open
a bit, you know, kind of just looking
like, you know, what the heck?
He's like, I almost hit one of those
[__] things.
And, you know, we didn't know, I mean,
we knew what he was talking about. We
didn't have a name for it, but um
or like you know what it looked like. Um
cuz this was the first time we had
really ever seen one as far as we knew
at this point. At least I did. and he
described it as a dark gray or black
cube inside of a clear sphere.
Um about 5 to 15 feet in diameter was
the best estimate he could give it.
Mh.
Um and that really triggered a pretty
big reaction to squadron cuz now we had
to file paperwork, a safety report, a
hazrap or hazard report.
Yeah.
Uh and and so we did that and the safety
officer took the time to kind of survey
the rest of the squadron to see, you
know, okay, what other experiences have
you had around this?
Yeah. And as it turned out, there were
like four other near midairs that our
squadron had over the past, you know,
few months with this issue that went
unreported.
What was So, you're taking all this in.
What was your first instinct as to what
this thing might have been?
You know, at the time I really I I
didn't speculate to what what it could
be. UAP wasn't a term I was familiar
with.
You know, there were some jokes about
UFOs. Um, but you know, I think the
general assumption was that this would
must have been something that blew in.
It must have been some kind of civilian
tech. It must have been maybe even worst
case an adversarial capability. But,
you know, the more that we kind of
talked about the various experiences,
what people had and what they were
seeing, it just those it didn't fit any
of those categories. Even though like we
didn't really have any any other label
to give it, you know,
or any other category to put it in, you
know, there's no propellers, there's no
propulsion. It seems to be masking. It's
IR signature, so we can't even break out
to see what it looks like. Uh, and
they're traveling at speeds and Oh, by
the way, they're out there all day.
What were the What were the top speeds
that you
1.2 Mach was the fastest I detected one
of those? Yeah.
Uh, which as I told you, my top speed
1.32. I mean, that's fast even for a
Super Hornet. Y
um especially for something with no
exhaust plume.
Totally. Yeah. So, the main anomalies
you'd say would be Yeah. low
observability and masking signatures. It
would be being able to withstand extreme
amounts of wind and stay stationary.
That's not obviously normal. The shape,
the geometric shape.
Yeah.
Um anything else? I imagine speed
combined with those factors is
anomalous, but maybe speed alone would
not be considered anomalous. Anything
else that you'd consider anomalous?
Well, there were there would typically
be like a handful of them out in the
areas. Um, it wasn't just like one that
we might see. It was like three to five,
seven of them. They're only overwater.
Uh, they're only going fast when they're
hitting like due east essentially.
Um, did any of them go cuz obviously you
know your friend Commander David Fraver
who testified with you uh in front of
Congress and I want to talk about that.
He had an experience at Nimttz in 2004
with their carrier strike group and he
mentions that the craft that he saw was
hovering right above the water and then
it almost seemed to you know go in and
out of the water like this be this kind
of transmedium object which is another
observable when it comes to UAPs. Did
you experience anything like that or
So I haven't heard of us in that time
frame experiencing that. you know, we
can see down to the ocean, you know, the
ocean with our radar system, although it
gets a little worse as we get really
close. We really don't have the system
to tell us that something's entering the
water unless we're like up on it and we
can visually see it.
Yeah.
U but these things would be climbing and
descending various altitudes. Um we kind
of cap our radar at around, you know,
30,000 ft or so. So if they were coming
from higher than that, we weren't really
observing it, but very likely that they
were operating even higher than that. Uh
they weren't respecting the boundaries
of our area at all, which was a big
clue, right? I mean, if it was some
test, they would not be flying through
the international commercial
channel that's to the north of our area.
But these weren't,
you wouldn't be almost hitting one of
the pilots. Like, that seems pretty
unsafe. Even if you're
It's funny because we did this great
talk last night. It was a lot of fun.
And uh I was telling you one of the guys
in the audience was NRO and NASA and he
came up to me afterwards and was like I
do think some of these things might be
redteameing our systems, our detection
capabilities in our airspace, which may
be true in certain cases, but you
wouldn't try to hit a pilot, you know,
if that were the case. I don't know what
your take is on that. Yeah, you know, I
it's hard for me to imagine that they
would unwittingly expose us to what
would very likely be what's considered
like special access program type tech
SAP.
Um, that would that in itself would be a
massive security flaw almost equivalent
of telling someone that doesn't even
have security clearance about it.
And although by the way, we have, you
know, very secure ranges that are in the
middle of the country to test these
types of things. They have engineers,
they have pilots, they have whole
squadrons that can do that type of work.
Um, and so to take that type of tech,
basically do an illegal activity to
expose us to something we're not read
into, and oh, by the way, doing it over
international waters where it's very
well documented that there are, you
know, adversaries that are hanging out
down there, they're trying to see what
we're doing,
it just doesn't make sense to me.
Yeah, I think that's uh that's right.
And then also just the shape as well
because the final um sensor is the the
human eye, right? And so you guys saw
these things and uh that that's
incredibly important as well. How many
eyewitnesses were there to the actual
physical object? God, that's a good
question. There was probably I mean I
would say probably let's see there was
five safety reports. There was two
people in each air or each jet. I mean
so at least 10 out of the the 25 pilots
or so that we had but I imagine it's
much higher than that.
Okay.
And then it wasn't just our squadron.
But I I later learned to talk to uh
other squadrons that were operating out
of the same area and even other areas
later. But um you know when the New York
Times article came out and I saw that I
started asking people back on the East
Coast cuz I was in a different area. I
was asking people in my ready room and
you know h about half the room raised
their hand like oh yeah the cubes and
fears you know we saw those. Yeah. And I
no prompting you know like and I didn't
even realize these people had had their
experience. I known them for a few
years. That's just not something they
talked about. Have you met fighter
pilots stationed elsewhere who've
experienced that shape? Cuz that shape,
when I first heard about your testimony,
I was like, that's so not even what you
hear kind of in the history of UFO lore,
it's like, you know, discs and saucers
and that sort of thing.
Have you heard of other fighter pilots
seeing that shape?
Yeah. Um, and all I've heard that one
and sphere is very common as well. Ones
that are like outpacing jets, but um,
you know, I mean, basically every base
that we have in the US, I mean,
uh, Norphick, Virginia Beach area, of
course, out in California on the west
coast. Yes. Um, further inland, Lore,
Fallon, these are other, you know, big
Navy training ranges. They're seeing
them there. Uh, Pax River where we do
our test pilot training. Uh, they're
having incidents up there. So, you know,
I think where these sensors are, guys
are seeing them.
It's so fascinating. And we're on the
heels of uh very interesting reports
that last year at Langley Hampton Air
Force Base for 17 days, you had quote
unquote drones swarming the base. Yeah.
And there was nothing that the US could
do about this.
Yeah. I mean, it's incredible, right? I
mean, Langley provides air response to
DC. I mean, that's a major major uh, you
know, piece of the puzzle here.
Yeah.
Houses F-22s. They had to move the F22s
to a new base cuz they were afraid of
potentially losing those assets. Uh,
they had similar incursions at uh,
Norphick, um, the Norfick Naval Base,
which is the largest naval base on the
east coast, if not the country. Uh, it's
basically where our carriers are
stationed. Um, and there's other reports
of similar objects that have been
further in, like actually over DC
itself. So, I mean, these are all
adjacent to the areas that we were
having our experiences and now we're
having this influx of other issues that
are occurring, you know, further north
and further north. And if only someone
told them that this could potentially be
an issue, right?
Yeah. If you were to pull, you know,
people on the street at this point,
we're in pretty interesting times. I
think probably 50%, maybe over 50% of
the American population now believes in
the reality of UFOs.
You know, this is obviously going to be
sort of a guesstimate on your part, but
you speak, I'm sure, with a lot of other
fighter pilots. You advocate for, you
know, all these safety initiatives
around the UAP topic. What percentage of
fighter pilots in and around, you know,
military circles do you think are are
bought into UAP's existing? Yeah, that's
a tough question. Um, I'll tell you
what, 100% of people that have had their
own experiences are bought in. I'll tell
you that. Yeah.
Um, you know, I've I've heard from some
of the staunchest critics on this topic.
They think I'm embarrassing the
community by having this conversation.
Uh, and then they have their own
experience and they're just, you know,
like, "Holy [__] you know, I guess I
was the guy that was wrong here." So,
you know, it's tough to say. I don't
know if I can quantify it with any
precision, but um you know, in my
experience, guys that are flying that
radar, they are seeing these objects and
whether they've had the agency to go
check it out and gain a visual. I
couldn't put a number on that, but it's
definitely a topic, at least within the
Navy, maybe not the Air Force, that uh
guys are are smart on. They're briefing
it in their flights. They're um they're
debriefing it afterwards. They're
submitting reports in some cases. Uh,
I've talked to guys who are still not
comfortable reporting it either because
they just don't want to put the time in
or they don't think anything's going to
happen or they don't want it to affect
their career in some way. Um, and so I
still think it's under reportported
regardless. It's fascinating. I I I
think the Navy angle to all of this is
extremely underrated. I think the Navy
has experienced a lot of this stuff for
a very long time. And one anecdote is,
you know, I did this show on this, you
know, mid-century inventor named Thomas
Townsen Brown who I'm fascinated with
because I think maybe he made some
interesting updates in topological
physics and the world of gravity that
have not met the eye and there's this
story actually um you know he's being
written about by this historian Paul
Levlet and Tonsen Brown goes to Hyman
Rick Rickover who is the head of the
nuclear navy basically started the
American nuclear navy and himman And
Rick over says, "Uh, towns and you know,
stop wasting your time. Like we've
already figured this stuff out back
then."
Yeah. [gasps]
So, and then there's another guy named
Robert Sarbacher who David Grush
mentions as having set up UFO secrecy
along with Robert J. Oppenheimer at, you
know, the Atomic Energy Commission of
1954.
And Sarbacher actually worked at the
Harvard Undersea Observatory.
Oh, did he?
Yeah.
And so I I think there's a lot going on
underwater. And I think that the Navy's
got to be, you know, have experienced
this stuff for a very long time would be
my guess.
Yeah. You know, that's interesting. And,
you know, underwater world is is
interesting. You know, they call them
USOS or um unidentified submers
submersed objects, I believe.
Um, and you know, I'll just say from my
experience talking to the guys on subs
and whatnot, they're always very KY,
very secretive. Um, but think about it,
you know, you don't have the the type of
like air traffic that you have, you
know, on our radar. We're always seeing
all these different contacts, a lot of
civilian air, but underwater, there's
much less of that. And so, if you're
seeing something bizarre, it's probably
a very high likelihood that it truly is
bizarre for some type of
misinterpretation. [snorts]
Um, and I know going back to gosh, even,
you know, Columbus and even before that,
most likely that they were, you know,
seeing things under the water that they
didn't understand what they were. And uh
I know Rear Admiral Tim Galidet uh who
used to run uh Noah National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Association is highly
interested in these underwater
anomalies. I know he's he's working on
uh pursuing that as a as a research
topic.
Yeah. There's um the little brother to
the NRO which is is now public so I can
talk about it but I there's not much
known about it is neuro and it's the
underwater version of the NRO and one
gets a sense that yeah we've probably
detected a lot of these things
underwater and do do you think you know
per what you described as the kind of
the observables of what you saw at
Oceanana do you think these things have
their own almost like inertial reference
frames because one of the observables is
they seem to be able to break
conservation of momentum, right? Like
you're flying Mach, you know, one or two
or whatever and then you stop on a dime
and it's like that's just impossible
like with a you know a gas propulsion
fighter jet
and so and then you plasma is also
coming off the craft which can reduce uh
I guess geforce you know you know
inertial drag
and so do you think they've figured
something out in that in that realm?
Obviously, we're in extremely
speculative territory here, but
yeah. No, I mean then I think it's a
natural question though because based
off of the flight mechanics, I mean, if
you have something that's going
supersonic or even, you know, even
point8 or so and you immediately stop
it. I mean, it's no different than just
slamming into the ground, right? I mean,
in fact, it's probably a faster stop
than if you were to crush an aircraft
into the ground. So, you have to ask
yourself, you know, how is it doing
that? And I don't understand a physical
mechanism that would allow it to do it
without having to speculate about some
type of ability to, you know, control or
manipulate inertia.
Yeah. Fleer, uh, which, you know, you
guys picked it up with Fleer also seems
to be this important kind of sensor
modality. Fleer had just been installed
in 2004 in the Nimits case with David
Fraver.
Um, and so it was like this new Rathon
Fleer system and Rathon's like, we're
not in charge of what you detect. what
you detect is, you know, it's on you
guys or whatever. Um, and so I find that
very interesting as well, especially
given, you know, how put off who
actually lives in Austin out here.
He's one of the deepest, you know, on
some of the scientific theories around
this stuff. And I think one of the
questions, you know, average people ask,
which is a fair question, is like, why
aren't we drowning in high resolution
photo of of this stuff? And I think it's
because of these blue shifts and red
shifts. And so if you were actually
manipulating spaceime in these ways that
would comport with all these observables
that you're mentioning uh you'd
experience
probably you know it would be it would
be things at the ends of the
electromagnetic wave spectrum not in the
RBG spectrum that we sort of see and so
it makes sense that Fleer would pick
this stuff up you know well our systems
too you know they're designed for very
specific purposes and the way our
systems work is that you know we have
two giant or one giant and you know
propulsion system in aircraft and they
expel a lot of heat and the rest of the
aircraft kind of absorbs energy from the
friction of the air and things of that
nature. Um and so the system is
calibrated because that's the
expectation what you're going to see. So
you can break out rivets on a jet, you
can see the cockpit um and you can very
clearly see um you know the the flames
in in the exhaust if you will. Uh but if
you had something that was propulsing
itself in an entirely different
mechanism that was putting energy out
equally across the skin of his body, it
might just look like a blur, a um
yeah, just a blur essentially because um
it's you know we're kind of getting the
worst part of the image and it's that's
what's being um that's type of energy
that's putting out across the entire
surface of the object. And so the fleer,
although it might be effective for
detecting that there's energy coming
from there, it's essentially masking
itself so that we can't see. And it
might not be doing that potentially. It
could be a byproduct propulsion or it
could just be a clever uh masking
system. It's fascinating. One of the
things that always stood out to me about
the Fraver testimony was he would say it
almost felt like the craft detected him,
like knew that, you know, he was sort of
looking at it. And is is that something
that comports with any of what your
squadron saw?
No, it doesn't. Not in my experience.
Well, I've heard some stories after the
fact, but you know, they would be doing
their own thing. They'd be in the area.
Uh so it seemed like they were focused
there, but they weren't like if we
showed up, they weren't like coming over
to us or going away. They just continued
to do their own thing.
Um so we certainly didn't have that type
of experience. Uh but you know, I have
heard, you know, multiple cases of these
maneuvering around aircraft um up in Pax
Rivers. fascinating case with one of my
good friends who had basically a sphere
pull up about 15 feet from his cockpit
while he's, you know, maneuvering pretty
quickly and hang out there for about 20
seconds and then start off in front of
him. Um, there's another instance down
in New Orleans where uh an object with
the same description shot past the
cockpit, initially thought it was a
balloon until his wingman noticed that
it turned and chased the jet and
basically shot up in front of it and and
overtook it. Um, so they I think they
definitely have the capability to
maneuver around us, to detect us, know
we're there. But, um, my personal
experience at the time wasn't to expect
these to be reacting to us in the way
that they were with Fraver's case.
So, you testified before Congress.
My name is Ryan Fobs Graves and I'm a
former F-18 pilot with a decade of
service in the US Navy. I have
experienced Advanced UAP firsthand and
I'm here to voice the concerns of more
than 30 commercial air crew and military
veterans who have confided their similar
encounters with me. It was a historic
debt. It was incredible. I mean I I
couldn't believe it. I was lucky enough
to be in the room and we talked to each
other for a bit afterwards and it was
just like I I never thought this topic
would ever get that sort of air time on
that level. And so how did you feel
about that,
man? I mean, just what an incredible
experience and day, you know? It was
really powerful for me when I went
there. I mean, I didn't know where I was
going to like show up, right? So, it's
like, I got to find the room. And we
just so happened to be walking in the
same direction as everyone else. And um,
you know, we see the line of people and
we're like, "Oh, okay. Well, this must
be a spot. Interesting." You know, it's
cool. There's a line. And we kind of get
to the front line, realize it was a
corner. You take the corner and there's,
you know, another 500 people lined up on
that side. And it was just I mean it was
really uh powerful to to just see all
the support and the interest you know in
person instead of just kind of the
random comments on Twitter or X excuse
me. Mhm.
Um, but you know, in a sense, it's
almost like almost like landing on the
boat, at least it was for me, where
you're just kind of locked in and trying
to push away all the,
you know, all the doubts and other
thoughts that you might have. Just kind
of get into the zone, be very present,
like, you know, we mentioned earlier.
Um, I met Dave for the first time there.
Got to speak to his lawyer and some of
the other folks out back. Um, it was
kind, you know, funny anecdote. We were
kind of getting ready to line up to walk
out. Uh-huh.
And uh it was like Dave was well Dave
Brush was standing there and then Fraver
and they both just kind of like grabbed
my shoulders and pushed me to front.
[laughter]
You first. This is your show. Get
That's pretty wild.
Yeah. And I was like, "Here we go." You
know, and
I mean cameras clicking and you could
you almost feel them. It's almost like
you can't even hear them in some sense,
you know? I mean, it's just really
powerful. But you know what was so
fascin or so rewarding I think for me
was that you know you see hearings on
the news and it's usually like you know
the members are maybe attacking the
witness or whomever is testifying or
maybe it's a partisan issue and there's
just a lot of back and forth on on the
sides of the aisle. But I've never seen
a hearing that was quite like that where
it just seemed like everyone was working
together, right? We were all trying to
figure this out. It wasn't partisan. it
wasn't um adversarial.
Uh and I think it's, you know, strange
that this is an issue that's starting to
bring out at least politically like some
of the best of us where we can have like
a normal adult conversation and maybe
move the ball forward.
Yeah, it was wild to see AOC and Matt
Gates just completely sympatico, you
[laughter] know, just in total agreement
over this issue.
Yeah,
it's uh I think that this might be the
only issue [laughter] in which they
agree on everything. Um, so you're
you're sitting there and you're sitting
with uh, you know, David Fraver and with
David Gush and you and David Fraver have
these amazing kind of eyewitness
accounts and then you have David Grush
sitting next to you saying that there's
been a covert reverse engineering
program. We've actually had a crash
retrieval program
for, you know, 70 plus years around this
stuff.
Do you believe that? Do you think that
the US government is reverse engineering
UFOs? Oh, that's a tough one. You know,
um I you know, in my job as a Navy
pilot, I was not exposed to any type of
technology like that or any type of
programs like that. And so the only
information that I have to go off of is
the same information that basically
everyone else has that's in the public
sphere. You know, I respect David Grush.
Yep. I he was tasked to do a job with
the UAP task force and that was the job
to understand and uncover this
information and he did it to the best of
his ability and he reported his
findings. Uh and so there's there's
nothing, you know, in his background or
in his professional experience that
would lead me to believe that he's lying
or making it up or being facitious in
any sense.
Yeah.
Um now, how do I integrate that into
like a wider belief system? It's tough,
you know? I [laughter] mean, I think
it's tough for everybody.
Um it's one of those things I think that
you know the only satisfying
um resolution is to have it essentially
be admitted and pulled out to some
degree by the government itself.
Yeah.
Um and although I think people are you
know they have their scales of
probability and I think you know he
moved the needle quite a bit closer to
certainty than Yeah. than before. And um
you know it's it you know I I listened
to a little bit of his story before the
hearing but you know a lot of that was
new information for me as well and
um
it was very surreal experience me
sitting next to someone testifying to
that type of information.
Um
so yeah I mean I I I believe what he
said. I believe he did it in earnest and
unless he was being manipulated, you
know, I think that the the statements
that he made are, you know, the first
line of attack for a representative to
further understand this and hopefully
uncover what's going on.
Totally. And he gave over a thousand
pages to the inspector general, the
ICIG, Thomas Mannheim, who the the quote
from Mannheim was, "This is urgent and
credible." And so, yeah, I don't know,
unless it's like something where the tip
of the iceberg doesn't resemble the rest
of the iceberg or something. And so,
um, we're jumping to conclusions around
exotic material falling from the sky,
but it like has to do with something
that we're not even thinking of. There
are things you can fathom like that, but
on the surface, you have a guy I've
gotten to know him personally. I think
he's extremely high integrity, really,
really smart, has literally an autistic
attention to detail,
and uh yeah, I think it's it's hard to
argue with, and it's so near-term
falsifiable where it's like he brought
40 people who claim to have worked on
this stuff firsthand to the IC inspector
general.
I if something doesn't pop in the next
20 years, I think you you know, it's
it's kind of falsifiable, right? So it's
like going to inflect one way or the
other where people will be like that was
a scop or they'll be like this was real
and just incentive or motivation wise it
doesn't make sense for him to you know
do that if he doesn't actually believe
it. Yeah. I mean he was being very
specific. He wasn't just kind of saying
oh you know we've heard rumors of this
that and the other thing. I mean you
know I mean I heard him say he's like I
can tell you the location. Let's get in
a skiff. So I mean you don't say that
unless you're highly confident about
what you're saying cuz I mean you're
just setting yourself up for failure.
Yep. And more and more have has come out
around like possible past gatekeepers in
politics. You hear Dick Cheny's name,
you know, around uh you hear George W.
Bush might have contemplated UFO
disclosure. And a part of me and then
you, you know, we talked about it last
night, John Podesta, who's you know, you
could say Clinton's chief political
operative, you know, was the White House
chief of staff under Bill Clinton,
basically ran Hillary's campaign,
extremely into this topic. I I sort of
want to question some of these public
figures and be like, "What do you know
about this stuff?" I mean, it's
fascinating.
I mean, a lot of these people are alive,
you know, let's let's have the
conversation. And I certainly understand
why they would be hesitant to do that,
but,
you know, I I agree with you. I think
more attention should be put on these
folks and have them at least provide a
statement about what they know. And you
know, there's always a fear, not fear,
but you know, the expectation that
they're just simply going to deny it cuz
I mean, if they are read into these
details, they would be breaking the law
and would very likely face consequences.
Totally. Yeah. No, it's a it's
understandable that it would move in
this sort of step function way where
it's like a little more comes out and
then, you know, you you get regulatory
action and then a little more can come
out and that you wouldn't get this kind
of catastrophic blow up. Is that do you
think that's part of an intentional
strategy or is that just kind of what's
happening through a outside group?
I think it's I think it's probably
somewhat both. So like I don't think we
talked about this last night. Think
about the psychology of a whistleblower,
right? Like you're this like patriotic
guy with a military or intel background.
Maybe you bump into this stuff. There
was, you know, this UAP task force that
was created that Grush kind of came out
of. this guy David Grush who testified
with Ryan and there are other kind of
you know high level officials who came
out of that you know task force if you
bump into any of these programs maybe
these people have intersected with your
career in the past as David Grush has
said and himself
you're probably going to want to
coordinate somewhat with people on the
inside to do this in a safe way that
makes sense for American national
security so yeah I don't think uh any of
the people at the forefront of
disclosure by the way myself included
want everything all out all at once.
Having said that, as an academic
field, I mean it's like it's like it's
like the nuclear thing is a great
example, right? So you have like nuclear
trade secrets that like should never get
out, but like nuclear science like
nuclear physics is a program at every
elite university. And the idea that, you
know, I I think we're kind of stuck in
these physics, you know, string theory
and some other stuff. Uh that that's
really travesty cuz it's just like we
have this like massive brain drain going
on uh on this like really really big
level where not to insult any strength
theorists out there. I think they're
very smart strength theorems, but um if
if we don't have access to kind of
greater ontological truth, like your
your physics theories are going to be
like way off. But yeah, I don't I don't
think there is there are very many
proponents of quote unquote catastrophic
disclosure on the inside. But I don't
think most people on the inside want
everything out. I don't think they want
trade secrets that will give China or
Russia an advantage over the US. You
know, they don't want those things out.
Um, but I do think and then I also think
there's probably something around
softening the blow for the onlogical
shock or whatever where it's like if you
have some top of the pyramid view of
this, it's probably pretty expansive and
deviates a lot from the average person's
worldview and so maybe
some sort of conditioning thing is
happening. I I think uh more likely
though it's emergent and so like it's
like one person makes a move here. There
are these like game theory dynamics
around disclosure or like this person
wants this stuff to come out and then
this person over here is like wait I've
been sitting on this stuff and they're
getting the glory here and there's like
stuff like that happening that's like
doesn't seem that coordinated. It seems
like human and then in the world in
which there are NHI which I I am pretty
sympathetic to. I think you know we're
not apex you know consciousness. Uh I
think more likely than not if it's
coordinated it's not being coordinated
by us in the world in which they exist.
Right.
We always talk about what's happening uh
within our community if you could say.
But yeah I mean if if that's true then
you know there's other calculus that
we're totally not taking into account.
Yeah. Yeah. It's it's fascinating.
Yeah. I I I'm really curious to see
where it goes. Do you feel like you have
any sort of prognosis or Yeah.
prediction for the next few years? I'm
not playing that game. [laughter]
That's good on you. Yeah.
But I mean, I see I see the change
that's happening right now. I don't know
necessarily where it comes to
culmination. I don't know when it ends,
but there certainly is an acceleration
of the process. You know, there seem to
be more cases. There seems to be more
people that want to talk about it. And
you know, I I think there's this kind of
interplay between this disclosure
process, whether government's willing to
share information and release stuff,
whether you know, the government or
whether factions within the government
are doing that, and the process of
people out in the civilian world, and
the commercial world that are saying,
"Hey, you know, like, well, I guess I'll
investigate this. I could put resources
here. I might be able to detect these
objects. I might be able to understand
this."
And the more the disclosure process
moves forward and information comes out,
it motivates the outside. And the more
work that happens on the outside, the
more pressure that's exerted to release
information on the government. And I
think we've been seeing this kind of
interplay and and buildup between those
two groups. Y
and you know what's going to what's
going to be the end result? Where's the
where's the big reveal going to come
from? I guess is to be seen. Totally. I
it's this beautiful crowdsourced effort.
And I think there can sometimes be ego
in this space of like I want to be the
one or whatever. But it's it's this
amazing thing where if you if you push
it, you know, a little farther, you
often get something back. It's a social
movement in a lot of ways, right? I
mean, the more information that comes
out, the more people understand it's
okay to talk about uh and they stop
dismissing the things that they maybe
have as far as information or maybe that
they've experienced. And you know, I've
been privileged to talk to a ton of
people on this topic and you know, the
amount of people that have had their own
personal experiences are I mean, pretty
close to 50%.
Wild and [clears throat] maybe that's
even higher once people feel more
comfortable. I mean, even last night,
you know, the question was asked and you
know, maybe like 30% of the crowd raised
their hands. And so, yeah, I mean, the
more you know, even if you do an action
in this in this space and it doesn't
lead to the government releasing a new
video or something, you're you're
educating the populace on why this
matters, why it's important. And, you
know, once I've met a lot of naysayers
as well, and it's easy to tell that they
haven't done any research into this
because they would see the connections
and at least have some interest in it
instead of being completely dismissive.
And so more information that gets out
there, you know, we're changing minds,
making people understand this serious
issue, and all that's going to just lead
to greater understanding.
Absolutely. Couldn't agree more. Uh
you're you're doing work with that. I
mean, you're doing you're doing that
job, you know, with this podcast. So,
thank you.
Oh, man. Well, do doing my small part,
but I appreciate that. Uh something we
we share is an interest in the private
sector applications of this stuff. And
despite conspiracy theories about, you
know, I work with Peter Teal, people
think he's reverse engineering a UFO. I
wish I It's not happening. It's not
happening. I wish you were more
interested in in in doing things like
that.
But
I think the um the trouble with some of
this stuff in the private sector world
is it's just long time horizons. It's
they're moonshots. They're really like,
you know, low probability but extremely
important, you know, work. And so we
were talking about this last night.
There's a part of me that thinks like
the Bell Labs model of like quasi public
private funding just needs to come back
if we are in you know some sort of arms
race visa v the Russians and the Chinese
and you know what Carl Nell says is
right. He's a you know has set up Army
Futures Command and he was on the UAP
task force with David Grush. If we're in
this arms race, I think we need sort of
more nationalized support towards some
of these technology efforts. And I don't
know what your experience is, but mine
is that a lot of our best and brightest
talent aren't working at the big primes
anymore or in government positions.
They're working at, you know, private
sector companies. And so, what do you
see? Do you think there's opportunity
here? I know you're doing some
interesting work in this area.
Yeah, I you know, I think I consider
this part of the kind of discovery
process. How can we motivate the
government to release information
because there's a pressure coming from
the outside to move the conversation
forward and I think it takes you know it
takes place in kind of two categories.
There are there are companies and and
people that are working on tech that is
inspired uh by this topic. Um some very
interesting technologies by some very
you know intelligent people and
mainstream people. uh advanced
propulsion, advanced materials,
uh energy production, uh and integrating
that into unique ways that would be
consistent with some of the things that
we're observing. And you know, I think
some of these capabilities are
capabilities that can come online say
like in a normal 5 to six year timeline
[snorts] uh without having to be a 10 or
15 year type project. I think they could
be broken down and I think really the
key to doing that is finding
opportunities that have wide
applicability, right? So, of course, if
you can uh say generate energy in the
skin of an aircraft, that would be
highly applicable to many different
industries, but it also might validate
or invalidate something that we're
seeing in the UAP topic. On the other
side of that coin, it's not just about
trying to put forward these different
technologies. It's about, you know, how
do we better understand what we're
seeing? How do we sense these better?
And that's an area I've spent a lot of
time thinking on. what technologies can
we put forward uh that will provide us
you know the ability to detect these
objects to characterize them and then
further evaluate you know exactly what
they are what their intent are and you
know where they came from. Um I've
started a small company that is building
uh what we believe to be the next
generation of space situational
awareness cameras that will be able to
provide uh highly detailed information
around non-traditional orbital uh
trajectories. Uh these can go on
satellites and it has a great use case
where you know it can provide awareness
to the satellite operator. So they can
choose or not choose m to maneuver their
their uh space vehicle and extend the
lifespan. But this would also be a
source of uh uh UAP detection that could
be uh commercialized and sold as
potentially intelligence product or uh
whe whether within DoD or within the
commercial markets. Um and so I think
you know the way that commercial space
is evolving and being deregulated or at
least not deregulated but it's loosening
up quite a bit uh I think the time is
now for companies and u other folks to
look to how they can contribute to this
project through open- source technology
through commercial projects and you know
that's an area that I've talked to a
number of people that are interested in
funding. uh if anyone's interested in
learning more about that, be happy to to
share that information and and help them
on their on their journey because that's
I think the path that's going to move us
into understanding this and not having
to just simply sit back and wait for the
government to share with us.
And I think also unconstraining or
opening up some of these like prior uh
biases that we have especially in
physics. Carl Nell just uh did a great
interview for Danny Sheihan's New
Paradigm Institute and he was talking
about not only the preponderance of of
life in the universe and how you know
it's probably much older than we think
it is and you know all sorts of things
there but also when it comes to physics
faster than light travel you know uh
Miguel Alubiieri figured out this sort
of theoretical model and NASA's been
studying this for years you have Sunonny
White at NASA you know doing interesting
work in this area and it involves I
guess negative mass or negative energy
but we actually detected negative energy
you know with the casmir effect and so
there are all these ways in which if you
talk to an average scientist at you know
any sort of university they'll say these
things are just impossible and then
you'll talk to like somebody doing
interesting work at in at the frontier
of R&D at aerospace like I just met this
uh former head of revolutionary tech at
skunk works
and it's like he agrees with all this
kind of ostensibly wacky stuff that I
believe way more than, you know, any of
these like prestigious professors and
it's this weird thing where it feels
like aerospace has the real science and
academia just doesn't.
Yeah.
What do you think?
Yeah, I mean I agree with you. It seems
kind of like a zero sum game in academia
where everyone's competing for the same
grants. The standards are extremely high
uh and no one wants to screw with their
career path so they can get tenure and
then kind of settle into whatever they
actually really want to do. Y
uh but you know that's different than
how the startup world works in the
technology world. You know guys are
they're pushing the edge of the
boundaries and they the only limitations
they have are are their resources and um
and what's capable. So yeah I agree with
you 100%. I think a lot of the real
interesting work is is happening out
there and that's why again I think it's
such an interesting time now where that
that type of environment this you know
this startup community that we have
could be leveraged to be able to push
this conversation forward. I I I don't
think we can rely on academia to do
that.
Absolutely. It would be awesome if young
talented STEM students watch content
like this and they are get opened up to
these frameworks and they can work on
thing and we were talking about it last
night. As important is the process of
discovery, right? What can we do in the
private sector? What can we do in a
commercial world in order to bring
forward capabilities, technology, and
understanding that's going to allow us
to decipher this without waiting for the
government to throw us grabs
essentially? And so there's multiple
organizations out there. Some of them
are attacking it from a technology side.
Can we protect uh potentially create
technology that replicates some of the
uh kinematics that we're seeing? If we
can imagine perhaps they have
capabilities in the skin of their
vehicle to generate power versus having
that engine in the back. So there are
companies working on some very
interesting energy and materials
propulsion technologies. Um on the other
side there's how do we better understand
this scientifically?
It's like SpaceX is an amazing company
but it's an earthbased space company and
it it'll take
a human on a chemical combustion rocket
80,000 years to get to Proxima Centauri
B. uh which is not viable obviously and
so we need some sort of space-time
metric engineering
you know just to kind of speculate a
little bit one of the things that
fascinates me about the UAP topic is if
you know if we can make the assumption
that these are from somewhere else
they're observable they're studyable you
know are we one or two like
breakthroughs away from having the same
capabilities you know that would you
know immediately lock potentially close
to our lifetimes access to the rest of
the galaxy in a lot of ways and I can't
think of a a a grander vision for
focusing our energy on something.
Oh, yeah. It would be amazing. And that
was actually probably when I interviewed
David Grush uh right after your guys's
amazing testimony. That was probably the
most
thing the thing he said that was seared
the most in my mind which is he said if
I were a betting man I think that this
represents tech that is not a step-wise
leap ahead of humanity but it's almost
an alternative timeline in which they
went some civil propulsion route and we
went this destructive catastrophic
nuclear route and I just I was like holy
[__] that's amazing. Yeah, I thought of
similar things, right? Like I mean again
making the assumption they're from
elsewhere. I mean what if they evolved
on a a highly uh a large planet that had
very high gravity, right? And perhaps it
the economics didn't work out such that
you know chemical rockets were a
solution that was ever viable and so
they maybe it took them longer to get to
space but then when they did they did it
by developing a technology that either
we haven't got to or never considered
because there was more economic option
on the table.
That's fascinating. Yeah. So like mass
ejection wouldn't even work cuz the
gravity was so intense. So you need some
sort of space-time warping. Wow, that's
cool. Yeah, I like that.
Yeah, there's so many there's a plethora
of options when it comes to this stuff.
And I Yeah, I think per our conversation
on, you know, kind of academia,
aerospace in the 40s and 50s. You were
telling me earlier that um you live in
New Hampshire and you live pretty close
to this pub that is uh dedicated to the
grav gravity research foundation I
believe uh you know this work of Roger
Babson they're doing all sorts of
gravity research and this is a time when
military and academia were extremely
entangled and then you had these things
called the Mansfield amendments which
disentangled them and you have the
invention secrecy act of 1952 as well
where it felt like you know physics
physics became dangerous. You had, you
know, atom bomb up until a thermonuclear
bomb and you have to think, you know,
that like physics itself needs to be
treated in this sort of more careful
way.
And so, yeah, I think we're in this
weird time now where a lot of people
feel very kind of duped by a lot of the
frameworks that are public, string
theory, quantum gravity, that sort of
thing. And yeah, they they want tech to
reacelerate cuz we live in this we live
in this horrible multi-polar world
that's on the brink of nuclear
catastrophe. Like if there was ever time
to get better exciting civil side use
cases and explore the stars, it would be
now. Yeah, [laughter] absolutely. And
you know, when I think about that, I I
kind of go back to your your comment
earlier about, you know, we can't
release things that are going to damage
our national security, right? We're not
suicidal. It doesn't make sense to do
that. We certainly can't rely on
something else that may be out there to
to stop us from wronging ourselves. Um,
but you know, nuclear physics is a known
quantity. It exists and people share
that. We don't share the secrets to our
nuclear weapons. And I think, you know,
I think that's a fair model for how this
can be understood, right? We don't have
to maybe give away the secrets of the
material science of the propulsion
system of how it's integrated in other
tech, but the base reality that exists.
I think that's my hope for, you know,
people talk about disclosure. What does
that really mean? But I think ultimately
that's what it needs to be just an
acknowledgement of the reality of the
situation and allowing them to share
hopefully, you know, an assessment of
maybe not the star system they're from,
but you know, to understand that they're
not from here. It's it's not an
adversary system. It's not trickery. And
yeah, and I think the public would be
very accepting and understanding of the
fact that of course not everything is
going to be shared, but I think it's
really just basically a crime against
humanity to just withhold such important
information about the reality of it from
the the world populace.
Couldn't agree more. So right now uh in
government you have the all domain
anomaly resolution office, right?
Yes. Arrow and uh there's kind of a
split in our world of people who are
advocating for UFO disclosure. Some
people support Arrow, others say that,
you know, they are somehow co-opted or
they're not doing their job in good
faith
uh in collecting this data. They've
recently had a change of the guard. So
from this guy Kirkpatrick to I think you
told me who the new leader is,
John Kowski.
John Kowski. What do you think of Arrow
as an organization?
Yeah, you know, as an organization, I
think that um you know, one, they've
been given a very challenging task uh
and it's something that requires them to
interface with essentially the whole of
the government to be able to resolve.
So, just right off the bat,
understanding that they have a very
colossal task on their hands. Um, but
you know, I, you know, I've know they've
received a lot of criticism as well, um,
from people online that have suggested
they're not doing their job, um,
earnestly. Um, and, you know, I think
the individuals within the office
themselves are, you know, doing the best
work that they can do with the resources
they have. Um, but ultimately, you know,
they need to be properly funded, which I
believe has occurred, and they need to
have access to the right information.
Um, and ultimately it's a DoD
organization, right? They're not there
to um succumb to the needs and desires
of the American people necessarily that
are looking for particular answers to
questions they have. Uh, and so we, you
know, I think we need to understand
that, you know, they're doing it within
the confines of of answering to a
customer that isn't necessarily the
American people. And I think that's why
the legislation such as the UAP
Disclosure Act is so important, right?
because it it created that mechanism
that does answer the mail for the
American people specifically with the
suggestion of a a review panel
which essentially would receive the
output from Arrow and others
and be able to do a a security
assessment or risk assessment of the
threat to national security of the
information and have the authority to
declassify information uh for public
consumption. Uh, I think that was my
biggest disappointment that that was
removed from the first version of the
UAP Disclosure Act and we're dwindling
on our options for this year's version,
but I think that is really going to be
the key pieces key piece that, you know,
Arrow just simply can't can't fulfill,
right? They're not designed to do that.
They don't have the the the authority to
be able to share and declassify
information for the most part. Uh, and
so, yeah, I think, you know, I think
there's other components that are needed
outside of just Arrow. Yeah, it would be
amazing if we got that um executive
panel of interdisciplinary experts to
sort of you know help with this process.
You have worked a lot on kind of
aviation safety initiatives around this.
I I guess I'm somewhat of a split mind
where I'm like my take is going to be
very armchair compared to somebody like
yours when it comes to aviation safety.
So I'll sort of like be differential to
like you and other fighter pilots. And
then at the same time, I'm like, this
stuff has probably been going on for a
long time if it's the UAP phenomena. And
so I I don't know of too many incidents.
There's I think one from like 1979 that
James Fox covers where uh this Iranian
pilot like shoots at the UAP and then
there's, you know, this sort of dog
fight and then he starts going down. And
so there clearly are safety
implications, but how
uh kind of near-term important is the
safety component of this?
Yeah. You know, so you know, it's a
sliding scale, right? So people that
don't fly, you know, think safety issue
is you hit something in the air and you
lose your aircraft. And you know, that's
obviously the worst case scenario. And I
think for a military pilot that is not
treating this seriously, that's a much
higher probability than say a commercial
airliner that they're just sitting there
in the chair, you know, they're looking
outside, they get all the time in the
world,
their cognitive loading, as we call it,
is is pretty low. Um, they don't have
the agency to maneuver, so they're on a
very strict path.
Um, and you know, I think that the risk
is lessened in that particular scenario.
As a military pilot, we are often
operating at the edge of your cognitive
ability, you know, and starting to maybe
shed things. Um, that's when you have a
much higher risk of having an incident.
Um, when you're, um, you work as hard as
you can, you're doing, you know, mental
math, you're targeting into all these
different groups, you're getting blown
with the wind, you're flying next to
your lead, all these things compound and
then that's when you have an issue. Um
there's there's a gentleman that sends
me on several times a month stories that
he's pulled up about aircraft that have
mysteriously gone missing. Um
Wow.
And so there, you know, some of them
are, hey, he he saw an object and he
chased it and then, you know, 5 minutes
later he flamed out or he crashed.
interesting. Um there's a number of
cases where it's just, you know, an an
aircraft hits an airborne object
and it crashes and there's no knowledge
or understanding of what the object was
they hit. And I'm not necessarily
attributing to UAP specifically, but I
think there's a lot more research that
can be done to validate some some issues
that have occurred in the past that may
or may not be related to this.
Yeah. what was considered a national
security issue in the context of foo
fighters 1942 to 1945 and specifically
in Bavaria, southern Germany, you had
these like what looked like controlled
controlled balls of lightning kind of
showing up and but messing with Allied
fighter flight paths
and fighter pilot flight paths and it
was it seemed like
you know there was some sort of
intentionality on the part of these
objects and the the pilots were
definitely kind of they felt like
they're they were being kind of
obstructed in their abilities to fly.
Safety is one thing. National security,
however, I think it's a very clear and
present danger,
right? So, when we're flying around in
our jet, we're being very cautious about
what aircraft are out there. And if this
was a a tactical scenario, I mean, we
have to know 100% what each one of those
aircraft are. Are they a threat? Are
they a commercial airliner? And we're
going to, you know, start World War II
by shooting down, you know, 100 people
in an aircraft. Uh and so
we have so much technology and so much
training into that. And so when you just
you take this very complex scenario and
then you just kind of sprinkle in all
these unknowns, right? It becomes a
massive issue.
Yeah. Even if the conclusion is we know
the signatures of these things, there's
not much you can do, but like when you
detect it, you know what's going on. You
know, maybe don't be aggressive and kind
of do your thing or something. Even if
that's the takeaway, like it's good to
have that, right? And look what's
happening, you know, in Ukraine, of
course. I mean,
having unidentified, non-responsive,
unknown origin type vehicles that are
operating near our military bases. I
mean, you can see the devastating
effects that that could potentially lead
to. And, you know, I think one of the
big things we see is that guys say, "Oh,
you know, someone that might be a bit
incredulous on this topic is saying, oh
yeah, I don't believe in UFOs. That's
nothing." Or, "I don't even want to
report this." And what if it is an
adversary that is observing our bases
and doing something? You know, it's just
this massive flaw. And we've learned
these lessons in the past, but it seems
like we're repeating this error by
just the force of the stigma that is
surrounding this topic. What do you
think of, you know, Lou Alzando has been
out for a while now, you know, since
2017. uh he was kind of one of the first
whistleblowers and he in the past has
said maybe UFOs are sort of prepping the
battle space. Maybe they're doing recon
or sort of a scouting job and maybe
they're they are somewhat adversarial
and they haven't stopped nuclear wars in
the past. Do you think that that's a
possibility?
Well, that was one of my first
assumptions when I uh we were seeing
these on the Eastern Seabboard. We
weren't assuming they were uh UFOs doing
that, but we're like, "Hey, this could
be an adversary that is soaking up our
waveforms, that is trying to decrypt our
radios, that is observing our tactics."
And if we just ignore them and let that
happen, you know, the next time we go
into a major conflict, all of a sudden,
they know everything we're doing. They
can jam us. They can break our radios.
And so, we were setting ourselves up for
failure in that point. So, I do get the
sense that even just having them out
there in the passive kind of non-escript
way they were
could very well just be a recon type
mission.
There's a long history of fighter pilots
like yourself having seen these things.
Um, so you have Gordon Cooper who uh,
you know, was one of the first American
astronauts who spent more time in space.
I think he spent 36 hours in space or
something for the Mercury mission. Ted
Stevens, who was a senator from Alaska,
who actually helped start OAP with uh
Harry Reid, right? Um actually saw saw a
UFO, I think, in World War II as well.
And then recently, uh I interviewed our
mutual friend James Fox. He talked about
Buzz Aldrin's sister telling him that
Buzz Aldrin, as a fighter pilot in World
War II, saw a UFO, I think, in Japan.
I don't know where.
So, I think this is a very it's probably
a much more common occurrence. And I I'm
uh just uh very grateful for uh you to
uh be the tip of the spear as far as
coming out and destigmatizing it because
a lot of this stuff is going on, water
cooler conversations, hallway
conversations, and you're really making
it public. Yeah. I mean, before before I
spoke out, I mean, you'd hear the talks,
right? Even just not just the historical
ones, but guys, you know, kind of older
guys been flying for a while, like they
all just seem to have that cool story
they tell you, you know, once they had a
few drinks in them. [laughter]
Right. Exactly. [snorts] And so, yeah, I
think this is I think this is much more
per pervasive. I think it's been
happening for a while and and it's still
happening. You know, I mean, I've spoke
to current astronauts that have had
their own instances. Um, so it's, you
know, it's strange how we we tend to
discount the past, even the recent past
on this topic, but um, it does seem to
be very per pervasive. And, you know,
when I when I spoke out about this, I I
did it simply because I was hearing that
my colleagues were having no resolution
to this issue. it was still a safety
issue. It wasn't getting run up the
chain. It wasn't getting resolved. Um,
and you know, my motivation was simply
to be able to provide some additional
information so that this would hopefully
get the attention it needed to get
resolved. And of course, since then,
I've learned it's not usually
resolvable. Um, as as Arrow has learned.
Yeah.
Despite the name. Um
and but and then I you know I kind of
became a beacon for people to call and
report their their incidents for me
primarily aviators but all sorts of
people and I you know that's what led me
to believe that you know wow this is
this isn't just military pilots it's
commercial pilots and you know that was
my goal going back to the hearing was
just simply to be able to do the same
thing I was trying to do for the
military guys is to be able to share
just how prevalent this was and how this
was something that was just going
unmitigated and was you know a real iss
And um I'm I'm eager to see where this
conversation is in 5 years, whether
there's full disclosure or or not. I
think that this topic and conversation
is going to continue to grow in the
public sphere. People are going to be
more willing to share their experiences
and stories and I think we're going to
learn a lot from that.
I'm equally eager. I think you're going
to play a big part in it. And uh before
we wrap up, I you mentioned something
fascinating to me, which is you know one
of the central characters whose voice we
all know from one of the three videos
that the New York Times released in 2017
that the Pentagon admitted was real in
2020.
Bro,
there's a whole fleet of them. Look on
ASA.
My gosh,
bro. Going against the wind. The wind's
120 knots west. The whole thing, dude.
That's not is it? It's not. It is.
Well, if there's anything,
it's rotating.
You want to talk about that?
Uh, yeah. I'll talk about a little bit,
you know. So, I mean, when I first saw
the New York Times pop, uh, massive deja
vu, right? I'm seeing this. What? What
the heck? You know, and um my gosh,
that's the video I saw in the classified
space, my very good buddy. I'm not going
to say his name. Um who recorded that
video and uh of course the pilot in the
front seat as well, but this particular
gentleman was in my wedding party.
Wow.
We went through training in Virginia
when we first got the F-18 together.
Went to the boat for the first time at
night together. We got sent to the same
squadron after that together. Uh, and
then as I was leaving that squadron, he
actually put in a package to um transfer
from a weapon system officer, the
backseat guy, to become a pilot. Then he
got assigned to the same place I was
instructing.
We spent most of those 11 years or so
hanging out together. We're very good
friends.
Um, and you know, we got to talk just
recently and he actually shared
something with me. I I um
which we should specify which video are.
Yeah. Um but he he he shared something
uh new on one of the uh now famous
videos in particular the go fast video.
Roger. Uh, they're shooting.
Are you boxing a car yet?
No, I took an auto.
Oh, okay.
Oh my gosh, dude. Wow.
Look at him.
Uh, and what this was was that it wasn't
just a singular object when they
detected that. They're actually four
objects that were in what we call line
of breast. They're basically a straight
line about a mile apart which you know
and flying formation that way which you
know makes you think they have to be
connected to each other in some sense
digitally right they have to know where
they are in relation to each other to be
able to fly that precise of a formation
but you know he's still very um
interested in this topic at least in the
context of his experiences. It's still
something that he thinks about and I
think we'll be hearing some more from
him.
Can't wait and excited to see what you
do, too. And uh yeah, hopefully we can
keep collabing. And thanks for coming
out to Austin, Ryan, and coming on the
show.
My pleasure. Thanks for having me.
Awesome, man.